Metadata-Version: 2.1
Name: kapteyn
Version: 3.4
Summary: Kapteyn Package: Python modules for astronomical applications
Home-page: http://www.astro.rug.nl/software/kapteyn/
Download-URL: http://www.astro.rug.nl/software/kapteyn/kapteyn-3.4.tar.gz
Author: J.P. Terlouw, M.G.R. Vogelaar, M.A. Breddels
Author-email: gipsy@astro.rug.nl
License: BSD
Platform: Linux
Platform: Mac OSX
Platform: Windows
Classifier: Development Status :: 5 - Production/Stable
Classifier: Programming Language :: Python
Classifier: Programming Language :: Cython
Classifier: Programming Language :: C
Classifier: Intended Audience :: Science/Research
Classifier: Topic :: Scientific/Engineering :: Astronomy
Classifier: Topic :: Scientific/Engineering :: Visualization
Classifier: Topic :: Scientific/Engineering :: Mathematics
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: BSD License
Classifier: License :: OSI Approved :: GNU Library or Lesser General Public License (LGPL)
Classifier: Operating System :: POSIX :: Linux
Classifier: Operating System :: MacOS :: MacOS X
Classifier: Operating System :: Microsoft :: Windows
License-File: LICENSE.txt

The Kapteyn Package is a collection of Python modules
and applications developed by the computer group of the Kapteyn
Astronomical Institute, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.  The
purpose of the package is to provide tools for the development of
astronomical applications with Python. 

The package is suitable for both inexperienced and experienced users and
developers and documentation is provided for both groups.  The
documentation also provides in-depth chapters about celestial
transformations, spectral translations and non-linear least squares fitting.

The package's most important features:

    * The handling of spatial and spectral coordinates, WCS projections
      and transformations between different sky systems.  Spectral
      translations (e.g., between frequencies and velocities) are supported
      and also mixed coordinates.  (Modules wcs and celestial, Module wcs
      uses Mark Calabretta's WCSLIB which is distributed with the package.)

    * Versatile tools for writing small and dedicated applications for
      the inspection of FITS headers, the extraction and display of (FITS)
      data, interactive inspection of this data (color editing) and for the
      creation of plots with world coordinate information.  (Module maputils)
      As one example, a gallery of all-sky plots is provided. 

    * A class for the efficient reading, writing and manipulating simple
      table-like structures in text files.  (Module tabarray)

    * Utilities for use with matplotlib such as obtaining coordinate
      information from plots, interactively modifiable colormaps and timer
      events (module mplutil); tools for parsing and interpreting coordinate
      information entered by the user (module positions).

    * A function to search for gaussian components in a profile (module
      profiles) and a class for non-linear least squares curve fitting
      (module kmpfit)
